---
layout: post
title:      "NFL Playoffs: Ruby CLI Portfolio Project"
date:       2018-12-01 19:32:10 -0500
permalink:  nfl_playoffs_ruby_cli_portfolio_project
---


Its portfolio project time.  It was my time to figure out what I wanted to do.  I thought about it and as I was going through it I came up with a couple ideas.  First was a dialy deals scraper that would consolidate into a single app for me.  Then I saw Avi's video walkthrough of the portfolio project and decided that this idea would be a little too similar to what he was doing.  Then I thought "Hey let's scrape Kickstarter or something similar."  Then I read the instructions for the project and the Kickstarter idea was out.  So it was back to the drawing board.  

I thought about and decided that if I couldn't do my first two options I would do the next best thing and go for sports.  It happened to be football season and my favorite team happened to playing really well.  I wanted to be able to check their playoff seed (should they make the playoffs) quickly.  So I decided to build an app that would scrape the information that I needed and iterate though the information and display to me the standings, the playoff teams and their seed, which teams have a bye, which team has home field advantage, and what teams are the wild card teams.  Then the reality set in....I have a blank page with no code and have to build it all from scratch with no tests to give me any direction.  So how did I do it?

Well lots of credit goes to Avi.  His video walkthrough was extremely helpful in deciding how to start.  I decided to start with how I would interact with the program and then build the functionality to go with the interface.  So as Avi said in his video he likes to start with code that he wishes he had.  So thats where I started.  Write the CLI file and code and the build the functionality of it.  One line of code later and the CLI was done.  Next came adding the different files to go with the program.  After the files were created I started in on the functionality.  Starting with the interaction I built that first but needed some data to test that it was working properly and displaying the correct results.  How to do that?  Well to start it quickly and get going I put in fake data so that I could test to make sure it did exactly what I wanted it to do.  After interaction was working it was time to slowly start building real functionality one method at a time.  And finally we got to a working program.  Here is how it works.

When you load the program it welcomes you and takes you into a menu.  The menu tells you that if the season ended today.... and asks you for input on which NFL Conference you would like the standings for.  Once you select one it shows you the rank for the conference with index from 1 - 16.  It then asks for input if you would like more detail.  If you tell it yes it then gives you a submenu and asks what detail view you would like.  When you select what you would like to see based on options: Playoffs, Bye Teams, Home Field Team, and Wild Card Teams it displays the team with their index and their record of Wins-Losses-Ties.

It has been weeks of heartache and trial and error.  I have wanted to toss a computer because there was something that I was missing but at the end of the day when the program completely worked it was the most satisfying thing that I literally let out a verbal "HELL YEAH!!"  I didn't care who heard.  I was so proud of myself for learning and fixing everything myself with no direction on how to make it and no tests other than trial and error is extremely gratefying.  I am so excited to be going through this journey.
