---
layout: post
title:      "Sinatra Portfolio Project:  Estate Locker"
date:       2020-03-16 23:03:15 +0000
permalink:  sinatra_portfolio_project_estate_locker
---


So it is project time again.  This time it is the Sinatra Section Portfolio project.  I was tasked with creating a project from scratch that has a database with multiple tables, multiple models,  those models have associations with a `has_many :through `.  This project also needed to have all the Sinatra routes and views to be able to CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) through this thing.  Lastly it needed to have sessions and secure passwords.  So this is how this went.....

Firstly if you do not know about the Corneal Gem yet, just learn about it.  It makes this whole thing so much easier.  It will build out the basic file structure and associations for you to get you started on the right foot.  I did not know this and I manually created everything from scratch.  While this will undoubtly help me with my understanding of everything in the long run it made for some banging head against the wall moments to build it out by hand as it were.  So I started with an example from a previous lesson.  I just tried to copy the structure and make all the files.  Then my goal was to make the app work all the way around and then go to styling and making it look good and not just functional.  There was only one problem.......What was my app going to do?

I thought and thought and spent a couple of days trying to come up with an idea.   No luck.  I was sunk before I even got started.  Then something unexpected happened.  A friend of mine had a loved one pass away.  Having worked in the life insurance industry I did everything that I could to try to help my friend find if their father had a life insurance plan.  We searched and searched and couldn't find anything.  No will, insurance, retirement information.....nothing.  They ended up paying for the services themselves but it was tough.  They worked for a whole week trying to figure out the financial aspect of sending their loved one onward instead of spending their time doing what they should have been doing which was grieving.  As morbid as it may sound this gave me an idea for my project.  It would be a place for family members to input each person in their family and what things they have planned for their estate and be all in one place.  Speaking with my fiance who lost her father too soon I asked lots of questions about how this would have benefitted her at that time.  It was a resounding definitely do it as this would have made my life so much easier at the time.  I had my project idea.

I spent time figuring out what tables this would have and what information that this would store.  I would write out what I thought it should have and then ask my in house expert what she thought.  Then when I thought that I had everything figured out I asked the rest of my family and added things still.  In the end I got what I felt was a fairly comprehensive list of things for a persons estate and what tables I needed.  

Now it was time to start building.  I started with my database tables and migrations.  I followed those up with the models and associations.  After I completed those I started building out the controllers and routes one by one trying to decide which instance variables I would need with each controller route/view.  Once I had a rough draft of the controllers I moved onto the views so that I could see how it all would work together.  This part was simply trail and error.  Build the view.  Run `shotgun` to load up a webserver and test that view.  When I found something that either didn't work or was missing I would close out the webserver make the changes and start it back up.  It was boring but was completely necessary to making everything work correctly.

Lastly it was time to style everything once it was all working correctly.  I started trying to do all the CSS in by hand and then I came across a post with different CSS frameworks.  I wasn't sure that I wanted to use a framework until I stumbled across Bulma.  It was the modern look that I was trying to achieve.  A couple of days familiarizing myself with the framework and adding `<div>` to the views to make the framework actually do what it was supposed to do and all of a sudden I had a beautiful and functional web app.  I couldn't be more excited to possibly make this a public web app to help all families avoid the fate of my friend and fiance.  
